Gala woke up feeling cold and wet.

She forced her eyes open. She wasn't sure why she bothered; it was still dark out and she couldn't see a thing. But she could hear the rain pouring down outside her little pup tent. She reached out and felt a puddle to one side of her. Damn. The tent must have sprung a leak. She felt around in the dark, trying to find where the water was coming in. There it was. It was a small rip towards the top of the tent. Rain was dripping through in a thin, steady stream.

She felt behind where she was laying and grabbed one of her packs. She was pretty sure she'd left the patch kit in this one. She opened it and began to rummage through it, but she couldn't see anything. She tried to find the patch kit by feel, but wasn't having much luck. So she felt for one of the side pouches instead. She found her flashlight there, a big heavy thing. She'd seen two different movies where they used a flashlight just like it as a murder weapon. She hoped the batteries in it were still good. She pulled it out and flipped it on, but nothing happened. <em>Dammit</em>. She smacked the back of it in frustration. It suddeenly flashed to life, nearly blinding her with how bright it was.

She took the flashlight in her left hand and held it up above her head. With her right hand, she tried the pack again, now able to actually see what she was doing. After a few moments, she found what she was looking for. She took out a sheet of canvas with adhesive on it. The guy who sold it to her said it would stick even if it was wet. She was about to put that claim to the test. Using scissors she kept alongside it for this purpose, she began to cut away at it roughly. It was harder than she expected because the scissors kept sticking to the adhesive. But she slowed down and finally got it cut down to a reasonable size.

Tucking the flashlight under one arm, she stepped outside of the tent. She was instantly soaked, but there wasn't much she could do about that. She saw that Maximian, her donkey, had made his way beneath a tree for a bit of shelter. He looked up at her with dull eyes, tracking her movement and slowly swishing his tail.

Trying to shield the patch from the rain, she peeled the cover back off the adhesive, exposing the sticky part. She wiped away the droplets of water from the outside of the tent as best she could, then slapped the patch on. She didn't stick around to check to see how well it held, but hurried back into the tent, trying not to get any wetter than she already was.

It seemed like the patch was holding for now. The stream of water, at least, had stopped coming in. But her sleeping roll was soaked. She grabbed a rag out of her pack and used it to dry up what she could, or at least push the water around to the edge of the tent. Then, carefully maenuevering within the small tent, she stripped out of her wet clothing and put on something dry. Fortunately, her bags were made to be waterproof, so even though water had pooled around them, her clothing and gear were protected. She also pulled out her wristwatch and, using the flashlight, checked the time on its face. About 6:30am.

She figured there wasn't much point trying to get back to sleep. She flipped the flashlight off and stowed it back away, then just sat in the dark, alone with her thoughts.

She'd been having a strange dream right before the rain woke her up. She'd been back in the war, fighting through the jungle again. Except it wasn't the same jungle as last time. It was near a beach. She'd seen soldiers running through the surf, firing guns into the tree line. As she pictured it, she realized she knew the spot. It was a beach not far from Bell Harbor.

Her sleeping mind must have mixed everything all up. She hadn't come to Bell Harbor until after the war. After everything had gone all wrong. Bell Harbor was a peaceful little town, far away from anything important. This whole island was about as far away from anything important as she could find. That was the whole point of coming here, after all.

She continued to sit and brood for a while, until finally the sun started to come up. It was time for her to get going, regardless of the rain.

She stepped out of the tent and was treated to a gorgeous view. She had set up camp on top of a ridge looking down into a lush valley. The rising sun cut through the misty shroud of morning, casting shimmers of color that seemed to dance in front of her. She kept a small apartment back in Bell Harbor. But as often as not, she thought of this wilderness as her true home. Other people felt lonely out here. She did too, of course. But she felt lonely everywhere. She found it was often more painful to be lonely around other people than it was to be lonely by herself.

Her destination for the upcoming day was the top of a hill about five miles away. If it were clear, she'd have been able to see it from where she stood, but right now the rain and fog obscured it. She knew where it was though and she knew how to get there. Given the terrain, it would be about a five hour hike, maybe longer if the rain kept going. Her course would skirt around the valley, sticking to the highlands. The hills were tough terrain, but hacking through the lowland jungle would be even tougher. It was also very easy to get lost down there. Up here in the highlands, the vegetation was thinner, mostly small trees and grasses. Sometimes she had no choice but to cut through the lowalands, but she stuck to the hills when she could manage it.

She quickly broke camp, loading her gear on Maximian's back. The docile creature stood still, accustomed to the routine. She patted him on his head and fed him a sugar cube. She untied his line from a nearby tree and led him out on to the path she had chosen for the day.

After a few hours, the rain finally stopped. She took out her bed roll and wet clothes, laying them out flat across Maximian's back. She hoped the midday sun would dry them out a bit.
It quickly warmed up after that, and the mist cleared out. Gala started to sweat a bit from the warmth. Weather often changed quickly out here. She could see her destination now though, a tall hill that rose from the forest, still a couple miles away.

The final climb up the hill was challenging, but she and Maximian were used to it. She was only just starting to get winded when she reached the top. She gave herself a few minutes to rest, but her work for the day wasn't done yet. The next part was why she had come all this way.

She pulled several larger bags off Maximian's back and revealed several complex metal devices. She began to assmble them at the very top part of the hill. She had come up to the top of this hill in order to survey the land. Her equipment was specialized surveying equipment, designed to allow her to precisely measure the angles between herself and any point she could see. By collecting angles from several different locations, she could triangulate the precise location of various landmarks. Done properly, she could use the data she collected to produce very high quality topographical maps.

It was difficult work, but it paid well. Many people here on the island had a use for accurate maps. More importantly, it gave her a great deal of freedom to operate on her own, alone out here in the wilderness. In more civilized lands, this sort of work would be done by large, well-equipped surveying teams. But here on this island, it was just her and Maximian.

She was comfortable working alone, but she did wish sometimes she had someone to return home to. Every time she got back to Bell Harbor, her apartment felt cold, empty, lifeless. She'd had someone once, many years ago, but she'd thrown all that away. Foolishly.

She worked for several more hours, collecting measurements, recording everything carefully in her notebook. She worked quickly but precisely, double-checking each figure. If one or two points were off, she could probably fix things once she got back. But too many mistakes would ruin the whole expedition.

The sun creeping near the horizon was her signal to wrap things up. She needed to set up camp while she still had some daylight left. As she was putting her equipment away though, she noticed something unexpected.

She saw a plane emerge from some clouds above her head, trailing smoke behind it. It was a newer style of plane with just one pair of wings and a propeller out in front of the nose. That stuck out to her. Most of the planes she'd seen out here were the older style, with two sets of wings stacked on top of each other. 

Then she realized what else was strange. She couldn't hear it. Usually a plane flying out here in the wilderness was noisy, audible for miles around. Maybe this type was quieter than she was used to?

She saw that the plane was angled down, getting closer to the ground each moment. And then she noticed that the propeller wasn't spinning. That's why the plane was silent. The engine was dead. Was that related to the smoke she saw trailing behind it? She watched in horror as the plane continued down, headed towards the dense jungle below.

Gala moved fast. She pulled her survey equipment back out with shaky hands. She watched and waited, poised, until finally the plane crashed into the treetops. Trying to stay calm, she counted out nine seconds between when she saw the plane hit and when she heard the crash. That meant it was about two miles away. Carefully, she used her instruments to spot where the plane fell and read off the measurements. Her hands still shaking slightly, she did some quick math. She sketched out the area she'd just finished mapping and placed the crash site on the map. She looked back again to double-check. Her map looked good.

As she finished that, she heard engines. She looked up, surprised, and saw two more planes of a similar design coming in from the same direction as the first plane. Good. They must have seen the first plane go down. Maybe they could help.

She watched for a few minutes as they passed overhead. Then she saw the two planes dip down, angled towards the site of the crash. What were they doing? Were they trying to get a look?

To her horror, she heard the sound of guns firing. Squinting, she could see tracer rounds ripping through the air. The two planes swooped over the crash site, raking it with gunfire. Then the two planes pulled up and flew away.

She thought furiously on what it could mean. Whoever was on that plane, the others must really want them dead. But with all the foliage... there's no way they could know if the job was done. They'd need to come back on foot to finish the job. And the nearest airstrip was back in Bell Harbor, two days away at least. With all the hills out here, there was no way they'd try and land anywhere closer.

She snapped her notebook shut and closed her eyes. What was she doing? This wasn't any of her business. She thought back to last time she let herself get caught up in things that weren't her problem. It hadn't gone well.

But she flipped the notebook back open anyway, seeing the map she just finished sketching. She couldn't help but start planning her route. She could get down there in about three hours, she figured. She'd have to do the last of it in the dark, which would be difficult. But she knew she could manage it.

Dammit. She couldn't just leave someone down there to die. Maybe she was a fool. No, she absolutely was a fool. She knew that for certain. But if she was going to be a fool, maybe she could be a useful fool.