After two hours of walking, Gala was exhausted. Maximian, following closely behind her, was slowing down as well. Neither of them were strangers to hiking of course, but they'd already done eight hours during the day. It was also more difficult to make progress at night. She did carry a flashlight with her; it was big, bulky, and heavy, but still more convenient than an old-fashioned lantern. She kept it off most of the time though. She didn't want to run through its batteries too quickly. She also worried about giving away her position. If those planes came back for some reason, she didn't want to draw their attention. So she and Maximian did the best they could by moonlight.

She had to be getting close to the crash site by now. She'd followed the ridge line as best she could, avoiding dipping down into the overgrown valleys between hills. But the plane had crashed into one of the valleys, so she didn't have much choice but to cut her way down to it. She'd found a small stream to follow into the valley. When she went through one of these valleys, she liked to stick by water. Especially at night, when it would be easy to get lost and turned around.

She was walking slower now, trying to keep an eye out for any sign of the crashed plane. Maxmian huffed behind her, clearly nervous and uncomfortable. He also liked it better up in the hills. After a few minutes, Gala sighed, then pulled her flashlight out. She wrapped an extra shirt around the light and turned it on. She had to hope for now that nobody dangerous would notice. The light immediately threw back the darkness around her, letting her see the lush vegetation all around. Eerily, she saw the light reflect off a pair of inhuman eyes for a moment before the creature retreated further into the brush.

After a few more minutes of searching, she found what she was looking for. The plane looked like it had crashed through the tree canopy, smashing through and hitting the ground. The nose of the plane was planted firmly in the dirt, but the tail was held up, suspended by vines and branches. Flashlight still on, she started looking around.

Suddenly, a woman's voice from behind her: "Stop. I have a gun."

Gala froze. Shit. She should have expected this. This woman from the crash didn't know who Gala was. From her perspective, Gala could be whoever was trying to kill her.

"I'm here to help. I saw the crash. I came here as fast as I could. I swear, I'm not here to hurt you."

"How do I know you're not lying to me?"

"If I was trying to kill you, wouldn't I have my own gun?" Gala actually did have a rifle, but it was in one of the bags strapped to Maximian. This other woman didn't need to know about that right now. There was a time in her life when Gala would have never made the mistake of walking through the jungle without her rifle ready to hand. It had been years though since she'd had to shoot someone. It was probably better this way anyway.

"What are you doing out here in the middle of nowhere?"

"I'm a surveyor. You know, like making maps. I was out surveying the area and I saw you go down. Then I saw the two other planes..."

"So you understand why I might be suspicious."

"Yeah, I get it. But I really am here to help. And I know the area well. Better than anyone."

The other woman paushed for a moment. "Shit. I swear if you're imperial, I'll fucking kill you."

Gala filed that tidbit away. The empire was after her. Was she one of the rebels?

The other woman spoke again. "You can unfreeze now. I still have my gun on you though."

Gala turned around to where the voice was coming from. By the light of her flashlight she saw a young woman, maybe a bit younger than Gala herself. Gala was surprised to see she was sitting on the ground instead of standing. But then Gala saw the woman's left leg. It was definitely broken, and it was covered in blood and dirt. She had a revolver pointed at Gala, held in a hand that was shaking a bit.

"Shit. Your leg looks bad."

"Yeah, well it doesn't feel great either." Gala could see now the woman was gritting her teeth against the pain.

"I'm going to dress and bandage your leg. I've done it before, I swear I know what I'm doing. Can you please put the gun down though? It looks like you're barely able to keep it straight anyway."

The woman narrowed her eyes at Gala, but then lowered the weapon. "Fine. I'm not in much of a position to bargain anyway."

Gala started rummaging through one of the packs on Maximian's back until she found her first-aid kit. With the kit in hand, she rushed over to the other woman and began inspecting the injury. She began to carefully apply antiseptic and wrap bandages around the open wounds. After a few minutes, she found a pair of fallen sticks nearby and cut them down to use as braces for setting the leg. The woman winced in pain as Gala shifted the broken bone, but she didn't seem surprised.

As Gala was finishing up her work, the other woman spoke again. "My name is Victoria, by the way."

Gala looked up and met Victoria's eyes. "I'm Gala."

Victoria leaned her head back and closed her eyes. She took a few deep breaths. "Thank you. For finding me. I was... not expecting this to go so poorly."

"How did you expect it to go?"

"Well, I expected to get shot down. I think a did a pretty good job landing her though, all things considered." Victoria gestured at the broken plane. "And I expected you to come find me, of course. I didn't see the broken leg part though. That was a surprise. I probably just fucked it up somehow."

"You expected me to find you?" Gala couldn't tell if Victoria was joking. The woman might have a strange sense of humor.

"Sure. I mean, I figured someone would be out here. I'm impressed how quick you found me though. I'm guessing not very many people could have done what you did, finding me so quickly, even in the dark."

Gala grinned. That part was true. One of the hillfolk could have probably done it of course - they knew the terrain better than anyone. But they didn't like to travel at night, nor did they like to abandon their herds. Joking aside, Victoria was very fortunate Gala had been so close.

Victoria continued talking. "So what's the plan from here? Will I be able to walk soon?"

Gala gave her a disapproving look. "No, don't be ridiculous. It will be weeks before you recover. But we'll get out of here in the morning. I'll tie you to Maximian over here." Gala gestured towards the donkey, who was busy sniffing a nearby log. "We might need to leave some of my other things behind, but he's strong. He won't like it, but he ought to be able to carry you." 

Gala hated having to leave her heavier equipment behind. It was expensive gear. But she could find a place nearby to hide it away. Once Victoria was safe, Gala could return and get her things. She might even try and salvage anything that seemed valuable off the plane.

Gala took out one more item from her kit. She had a bit of morphine and some sanitary needles. "I'm going to give you this for the pain. It should also help you sleep. You should sleep if you can." Gala carefully found a vein in Victoria's arm and injected her with the morphine solution. It ought to work fast.

As she put the syringe away, Gala felt tiredness hit her hard as well. "I'm going to try and sleep for a few hours too. I'm going to need to be alert if I'm going to get us back to Bell Harbor safely." Gala started pulling her sleeping bag off Maximian's back. She wasn't bother with the tent.

"Where are you taking us to? Bell Harbor?"

"Yeah. It's the nearest town. There's nowhere else to go really. You need better medical attention than I can give you out here."

Victoria seemed nervous. "Do you think... will they be looking for me there?"

"We're not in the empire. Imperial agents don't have jurisdiction out here. Trust me, I'd know."

"They'll be looking for me anyway. They're not going to care about jurisdiction. They want me dead."

What had Victoria done to make the empire so mad? "We'll be careful. We can use a fake name, find a way to disguise you maybe. I know some people who can be discrete. We'll stay away from the hospital, have a trustworthy doctor visit us somewhere safe. Once the heat dies down, we'll sneak you on a ship headed somewhere far away."

Victoria still looked concerned, but there really weren't any other options. An overland journey to another major port would take weeks through miserable terrain.

Gala lay down and closed her eyes. "We can keep planning things out in the morning. For now, I need to rest. Good night, Victoria."

"Good night, Gala. Again, thank you."