"Whoa, Maximian!" Gala said. The donkey stopped by her side, tail swishing back and forth. She unhooked her packs from the donkey and began setting up various devices.

Gala was alone, aside from Maximian the donkey. He wasn't especially good company. Gala was comfortable with that. She preferred to be alone as often as not these days. She hadn't always been like that, but since Andrea...

She set that thought aside. No point to it out here. She just kept unpacking. She only had a few hours of daylight left and she intended to use them. After that, she'd camp out here for the night and carry on in the morning.

She'd been out in the wilderness for nine days, and it would be another seven days before she returned home. For her, home was a small town on the coast called Bell Harbor. Though as often as not, she thought of the wilderness out here as her home.

She was sitting on top of a ridge that cut through hilly terrain. She could see for miles up here. The valleys between the hills were thick, full of dense foliage. Higher up the hills, the trees gave way to smaller plants and grasses. She could see several streams of water from up here, cutting through the foliage in the valleys.

She had finished setting everything up, so she got to work. She looked through her carefully calibrated looking-glass. She pointed it straight at the highest point of a nearby hill, then carefully pulled away so as not to disturb the device. She read off the numbers on the side. These told her the exact angle from her to the top of the hill. She jotted the figures down, then continued, noting the next hill. Once she noted all the hills, she selected some key points along several of the streams and noted them as well.

The purpose of the exercise was to carefully pinpoint the exact locations of various landmarks in this stretch of wilderness. She couldn't do that from just one spot, of course. But by moving around a wide area and stopping to take measurements at multiple locations, she could put the pieces together and craft a very reliable map.

The truth was, Gala wasn't especially passionate about mapmaking. But she was good at it. In more civilized lands, this sort of thing was done by whole surveying teams. But there were only two other people on this whole island who did this sort of work, and they all tended to stay pretty far away from each other. The island was big, and massive sections of it had never been properly mapped at all. All they had were some rough maps drawn based on photographs taken from the sky. But those photos were terrible quality, imprecise, and didn't give you any sense of the detailed topography of the terrain.

And, surprisingly to Gala, the islanders cared a lot about the maps she made for them. Specifically, the hill folk valued the maps. 

The people living on this island were divided into two groups. There were a handful of scattered towns along the coast, settled in the past century or two by outsiders, mostly from the Empire. These were small towns by imperial standards, but big cities here on this island. The interior of the island was occupied by the hill folk. They had been here since, well, since the beginning of time, Gala supposed. They were mostly goat-herders, wandering with their flocks through the hills. Most coastal people didn't think about them too much. 

But for the hill folk, modern maps were a miracle sent from the gods. They'd relied for generations on folklore, memory, and rough sketches. But the details mattered to them. The details mattered quite a bit.

The most important use of her maps was negotiating migration paths. Every few years, the leaders of the different tribes would meet and negotiate migration rights. These could be very specific, indicating specific seasons and numbers of animals that could be brought through a region. This was necessary because leading a large herd into an area where the grass had already been eaten down by someone else could lead to catastrophe and starvation. The hill folk would fight wars over grazing territory. Having good maps was a huge leg up in these negotiations. They could tell exactly how the land lay and knew where all the best ground was.

Gala was also fortunate that, as an outsider, they mostly agreed to let her roam as she pleased. If she'd been one of them, she'd never have been allowed to cut across multiple territories by herself. That would have been an act of war. But Gala wasn't a threat to them. She had no goats to eat the grass, after all. Just a single donkey. She also went out of her way to maintain good relations with the more important tribes. She even carried letters with her, written by some of the tribal leaders, vouching for her honesty and good character.

What made the job challenging was you needed to have an unusual mix of skills. You had to be comfortable spending weeks at a time away from civilization. You had to be good at working the instruments and taking accurate measurements. And you needed to be good at the math needed to translate those measurements into a proper map. The only part she wasn't any good at was the artistic part of making the map look nice. But she knew a girl in town who would do it for a few imperial bank notes. Each map she sold was a unique, hand-drawn product, though she kept all her scratch work in a safe back in Bell Harbor.

The sun was getting low to the horizon by the time Gala was done. She started to pack away her things. She set them near where she had tied up Maximian. She'd put the bags back on the donkey in the morning. But as she was opening the pack that held her tent, she noticed something unusual.

She saw a small plane flying up above her, trailing smoke behind it. It was a newer style of plane with just one pair of wings and a propeller out in front of the nose. That stuck out to her because most of the planes she'd seen out here were the older style, with two sets of wings stacked on top of each other. 

Then she realized what else was strange - she couldn't hear it. Usually a plane flying out here in the wilderness was pretty noisy. Maybe this type was just quieter than she was used to?

She saw that the plane was angled down, getting closer to the ground each moment. And then it dawned on her that the propeller wasn't spinning. That's why it was silent - the engine was dead. That also explained the smoke trail behind it. She watched in horror as the plane continued down, headed towards the dense jungle below.

Gala moved fast. She pulled her survey equipment back out with shaky hands. She watched and waited, poised, until finally the plane crashed into the treetops. Trying to stay calm, she counted out nine seconds between when she saw the plane hit and when she heard the crash. Carefully, she used her instruments to spot where the plane fell and read off the measurements. Her hands shaking slightly, she did some quick math. She sketched out the area she'd just finished mapping and placed the crash site on the map. She looked back again to double-check. Her map looked good.

As she finished that up, she heard engines. She looked up, surprised, and saw two more planes of a similar design coming in from a similar direction as the first plane. Good. They must have seen the first plane go down, so they could go get help.

She watched for a few minutes as they passed overhead. Then she saw the two planes dip down, angled towards the site of the crash. What were they doing? Were they trying to get a look?

To her horror, she heard the sound of guns firing. Squinting, she could see the tracer rounds ripping through the air. The two planes swooped over the crash site, raking it with gunfire. Then the two planes pulled up and flew away.

She thought furiously on what it could mean. Whoever was on that plane, the others must really want them dead. But with all the foliage... there's no way they could know if the job was done. They'd need to come back on foot to finish the job. And the nearest airstrip was back in Bell Harbor, two days away at least. With all the hills out here, there was no way they'd try and land anywhere closer. 

Based on her count of seconds, the crash site was just under two miles away. Taking hills into account, that would be at least an hour-and-a-half hike. It would be dangerous in the dark. But she knew the terrain out here.

She quickly loaded the rest of her gear back on Maximian. Leading the donkey forward, she started making her way along the ridge, headed as fast as she could to whoever was out there. She hoped she'd find something besides wreckage and a dead body.
