Esphelonia, imperial agent, was displeased. One of her trainees had escaped.

It should have been impossible. They were deep in the imperial palace complex. The beating heart of imperial power. The emperor himself liked to keep an eye on things here. But Victoria was gone.

Esphelonia stood in the escapee's abandoned quarters. The room was small but comfortable. It was tastefully furnished with a queen-size bed, fine wooden armoire, and a corner desk. It was dark outside, but a lamp on the desk filled the room with warm yellow light. 

Most of the escapee's things were still there. Esphelonia's underlings had already ransacked the room, looking for any hints where the woman might have gone. Esphelonia didn't expect them to find anything useful.

A man wearing an imperial uniform stepped up behind her. He gestured for the others to leave the room. In a few moments, the two were alone.

The man spoke first. "How could this have happened? I thought your abilities were supposed to make such a thing impossible."

"My abilities aren't perfect." She turned to face the man. "I can't see everything. Nobody can." She paused for a moment, then sighed. "But Victoria... her powers are stronger than I anticipated. I should have seen it. I did not. It is regrettable."

"I admit I don't fully understand how your abilities work. But how is it that a trainee outmananeuvered a master such as yourself? Right here under your nose?"

"She is strong. She is still learning to control it. But in her sleep, she sees things. She told me as much several weeks ago."

"So in her sleep, she saw a way to escape?"

"Exactly. I didn't see it at all. But futuresight interferes with futuresight. Makes it more difficult to see the future."

"Yes, I've heard this. Isn't that the point of bringing the trainees here, to learn underneath your watchful eye? I was informed that your futuresight was sufficiently strong to ward off any potential dangers from these ones." He gestured around, indicating the surrounding section of the palace complex.

"We misjudged. We thought it would be safe to bring Victoria here. We underestimated her strength."

"It seems to me it would have been better to kill her when you had the chance. Instead, she's out there somewhere in the imperial capital. A knife we ourselves sharpened, now turned against us."

"I doubt that. She will flee the capital. She is strong, but untested. I expect she is already on a ship off this island."

"Do you see that? With futuresight?"

She paused. "No. I can't see anything regarding her at all. But I am nonetheless right. She's gone."

The man thought for a moment. "If this is true, it makes her less of a threat. But it makes her more difficult to find. How do you even go about tracking someone who can see the future?"

"She can't see everything. Her waking mind is untrained. She sees many things in her dreams, but she has little control over them. She will have left a trail, and we will find it."