Rolan stood on the promenade deck of the Mesmeric, appreciating the view out over the ocean. He'd been on many ships before in his life, but this was the nicest one he could remember. He was surrounded by people dressed in their nicest clothes, out enjoying the sun and the breeze. The Mesmeric was one of the newer classes of ocean liners, filled with amenities. There was a pool, a casino, and even a movie theater on board. As a pilot in the Imperial Navy, Rolan was used to somewhat rougher accommodations. 

Unlike the Mesmeric, on a warship, crew quarters and other amenities were just stuffed wherever they could fit. That's because a warship designer really only cares about three things: engines, weapons, and armor. All three of those are heavy as hell and take up a lot of space. The actual people who have to live and work on the ship are always, at best, a secondary concern.

Rolan felt a bit like one of those warships himself. Other people were like the Mesmeric. They were made for travel, entertainment, socializing. All the good things in life. Rolan was like a beat up old battleship. He was only made for one thing, and he wasn't even that good at it anymore.

Bullshit, he thought to himself. You're still plenty good at it. Rolan set that thought aside. He was a good pilot. But he was done with that part of his life.

"Excuse me, sir?" A voice came from behind Rolan's back. Rolan turned and saw that he was being addressed by a young man wearing a uniform. Rolan instinctively reached into his pocket and felt the note he had folded up in there. It was a dangerous note to have. But he couldn't stand the thought of leaving it behind in his luggage.

The uniform the young man wore wasn't a military uniform. It was just the staff uniform for the Majesty liner fleet. It was a good uniform, deep red with lots of copper buttons. Rolan forced himself to relax. Everything he was doing was perfectly legal. Well, as far as they could tell, anyway. "Yes? Can I help you?"

"Are you Lieutenant Rolan Wendell? I was asked to come find you."

Rolan clenched his teeth for a moment, then relaxed again. The young man seemed nervous himself. Not at all what he'd expect from Imperial secret police. "Yes, that's me. What's the matter?"

"Well, the captain heard you were on board... he wanted me to wish you a warm welcome on behalf of the captain and crew of the Mesmeric. We're honored to have you on board, sir." The young man threw up a salute. Not bad, though not perfect either.

"Uh, well. Thank you. It's a fine ship."

The young man beamed. "It's the best in the world sir! None other like it." The young man reached into a pocket in the jacket he wore and pulled out a small card. "The captain also invites you to join him at his table for dinner tonight." The young man offered the card to Rolan.

Inwardly, Rolan groaned. The last thing he wanted was to spend the evening swapping stories with some old grizzled liner captain. But he reached out and took the card anyway. Skipping the dinner would be an insult to the captain. And sailors of all types were a bit intense about that sort of thing. Rolan forced himself to smile. "Please, thank the captain for his gracious invitation. I look forward to meeting him."

A few hours later, Rolan handed the card to one of the wait staff in the dining hall. Rolan had decided to go ahead and play the part tonight. Decorated war hero. Ace pilot. He'd even put on his officer's dress uniform, which was still in decent shape. The server led him through the hall to the captain's table, a large circular table at one end of the hall.

The whole dining hall was beautiful. The lighting was provided by a great chandelier that hung from the ceiling, swaying gently with the motion of the ship beneath them. The walls were covered in ornaments and designs, mostly deep reds and rich ambers. A string quartet played in one corner.

There were three other people sitting at the table already. Two of them appeared to be a couple, and the third was a portly man with a thick mustache. As Rolan approached, the portly man leapt to his feet and offered his hand. "Lieutenant! Welcome, welcome. We heard you might be joining us tonight." The man's voice sounded like money and aristocratic leisure dragged through a pit of gravel. "What a pleasure! An ace pilot. Remarkable, truly remarkable." The man grabbed Rolan's hand and shook it vigorously. "I am Lord Percy, but please, call me Purce."

The other man remained seated but introduced himself as Rotsam Wake. The woman he was with was his fiancee Maria. Rotsam was slim and wore a modern dinner suit with a slick black coat. Maria wore a fashionable green dress. They contrasted with Percy's more old-fashioned style.

Rolan's childhood instincts made him want to cringe and hide away. He was the son of a mechanic, not someone fit to hobnob with fancy folk. But he crushed that down. He'd learned years ago how to hold his own in these situations. Rolan smiled instead. "It's a pleasure to meet you. I hope I'm not intruding on anything?"

That was all he needed to say. Percy immediately launched into an extended recap of the prior conversation, which was apparently a discussion on the physics of bird flight. 

Rolan was fine letting Percy dominate the conversation. He'd learned that with a man like Percy, the best way to get on his good side was to just let him talk. Rolan had known some kids growing up who just wanted to talk and talk about whatever their interest of the day was. Normal kids had that beaten out of them. But a man like Percy never had anyone stop him, so he just kept going. Rolan had to admit to himself though that he was amused by how much pain poor Rotsam seemed to be in listening to the old man blather on. But Maria didn't seem to mind.

Percy did eventually stop himself. "Look at me, the old fool, talking about flying to a man who has spent more time in the sky than anyone. You must find it rather mundane."

"Not at all!" Rolan replied. "Physics and mechanics happen to be an interest of mine. It's how I got into flying in the first place. When I joined the navy, I was a simple mechanic, just like my father." One might think that talking about lowly origins in a setting like this would bring disrespect, but Rolan had never really found that to be the case. Men like these frequently saw themselves as self-made even though they were born wealthy. They were happy to let a low-born man into their world so long as he knew how to dress and behave himself properly.

The conversation continued, flowing around to various topics. A server came by and brought them drinks - brandy for Percy, fizzes for Rotsam and Maria, and a martini for Rolan. The martini was pretty good.

Several more people joined the table over the next few minutes. Apparently Percy, Rotsam, and Maria were here every night, permanent guests of the captain. The others were a rotating cast each evening. The others this evening were a novelist and her husband, a professor, and an older woman. The older woman shifted uncomfortably as Percy affably informed the table that her son had been killed in action last month fighting the dirty rebels.

Eventually the captain himself arrived. He was a man who knew how to look the part, which Rolan respected. He had a well-maintained grey beard, a crisp captain's uniform, and a general air of authority. 

After initial pleasantries, the captain turned and addressed Rolan directly. "Thank you for coming tonight, Lieutenant Wendell. I had no idea you were on board until one of my staff saw your name on the ship's registry this morning. I'm a navy man myself, so I'm always pleased to see a man with your sort of record on my ship. I read all about the battle of Shizuma. What you did there was remarkable."

Dammit. That's not what he wanted to talk about at all.

Before Rolan figured out how to deflect, Percy spoke up. "Shizuma? I heard about that. Didn't some rebels get the jump on us out there?"

Rolan cringed. But the captain responded, "Indeed they did. But if the reports are right, it could have been a hell of a lot worse than it was if it weren't for Lieutenant Wendell here."

"Well, I don't want to take too much credit..." Rolan's voice trailed off.

"Spoken like a proper imperial officer. But truly, what you did was remarkable."

Percy, of course, took the bait. "What did you do Rolan?"

Rolan sighed, but the captain took over from there. "Rolan and a single wingmate were on a reconnaissance mission when they were surprised by thirty-nine enemy aircraft. The situation was perilous, because the Valor had no other aircraft in the sky at the time, and the enemy flew in under the Valor's radar detection system. A ship at sea is terribly vulnerable to air attack if it is not defended by its own planes."

The captain continued. "So Rolan here engaged thirty-nine enemy planes by himself while his wingmate frantically radioed back to the Valor to give them the enemy position. I believe the official reports say it was seven minutes before Rolan ran out of ammunition and had no choice but to fall back. Those seven minutes bought the Valor a chance to get more planes in the air. And I believe the official kill count during Rolan's fight was five enemy aircraft."

Five was the number of confirmed kills, though Rolan was fairly confident two more never made it back. Rolan's stomach churned thinking about it.

The captain didn't mention what happened next. But it was the next part that Rolan remembered most vividly. His ammo spent and his plane half shot to hell and back, Rolan fled the scene as fast as he could. And he spent the next thirty minutes dodging, weaving, and evading the enemy. Every moment certain that the next shot would be the one that killed him. Until that day, he had been the master of the sky. Nobody could touch him. Nobody could fly the way Rolan flew. Enemy planes were easy targets, and he took them out like a boy shooting soda bottles with a BB gun.

But that day, he had been the target. And he had felt, for the first time, what it was like to be up there in the sky facing certain death. All his glory withered away. He wasn't a hero at all. He was an executioner swinging the axe. For every kill he'd ever made, all he could think of was what it must have been like to be up there facing him, looking death in the eye.

Maybe it would have been different if he believed in the cause. Maybe he could have accepted that. But the truth was, he didn't believe in the cause. He didn't hate the empire, but he didn't love it either. And he didn't really have anything against some rebels who wanted to live their own way. He'd joined up because he liked working with engines and they paid good money. It was a chance to see the world. And once he got in the cockpit, it felt like destiny. He was so good at it, and everything was so easy. He'd never really stopped to consider why he did any of it. The praise felt good, the competition felt good, and winning felt good.

Percy, gods bless him, kept the conversation going. He peppered the captain with questions about this or that part of the battle. Rolan simply nodded along, or added some small detail he happened to recall. Food began to arrive, first a salad, then a soup, then various other courses. Rolan's stomach felt queasy, but he picked at whatever they set in front of him. Fortunately, upper-class folks didn't mind if you left food on your plate. It was seen as good manners. Not like in a working class home where leaving food behind was wasteful and an insult to the cook.

Rolan did drink a few more martinis though, enough to feel a bit sluggish. As the evening wound down, he excused himself, pleading tiredness. He found himself back on the promenade deck looking up at the stars.

Maria stepped up beside him. "I'm sorry about Percy. He's something of a bore, isn't he?"

Rolan turned to look at her, surprised to see her there. She shrugged at him. "Sorry. You probably want to be alone. But I was looking forward to chatting with you. And Percy..."

Rolan sighed. "Don't blame him. He's passionate about things. I like that. Yes, he's inconsiderate, loud, kind of obnoxious. But he seems like an honest man."

Maria laughed. "I suppose he is. I don't think the captain particularly cares for him though. But he's just too important not to invite."

Rolan raised an eyebrow. "And what about Rotsam? Is he also that important?"

"Are you implying he isn't interesting enough to merit a spot at the table?"

Rolan flushed, embarassed. He was too drunk. "Sorry, that's not what I..."

Maria grinned. "I'm just kidding with you. Rotsam is a fascinating man, but he is not an expert at dinner table small talk."

"So what does he do?"

"He's a politician. He's a councilor of Vairnus."

Rolan was surprised. "So he's not imperial then?"

"No. Nor am I. Is that surprising to you? We're on a ship that's heading that way right now. I'm sure there are plenty of us on board."

"I suppose that's true. I hadn't considered it though. I grew up on Scorna, far away from all this. First came out here with the navy."

"Well, welcome to the southern islands. The weather is nicer out here. I think you'll like it."

Rolan paused. "So, I don't mean to be rude, but... does it bother you, what I did? With the empire, I mean?"

"Why would it bother me?"

"I mean, I was fighting your people..."

Maria gave him a look. "We see them as rebels too, you know. We have a treaty with the empire. You aren't fighting us. You're fighting some extremists."

"Well, that's the official stance of course. But everyone knows you're on their side."

"Hmm. I don't know who 'everyone' is, I don't think I've met them yet."

Rolan felt like an idiot. He was talking to a politician's fiancee. Of course she would give him the official line. She might even believe it. "I'm sorry. I've been presumptuous."

"Apology accepted." She looked him up and down. "You do look tired though. I think you should get some rest."

Rolan agreed. He quickly excused himself and made his way back to his cabin. A few minutes later, he was in bed.

It was foolish to consider it at all. But he wondered what Maria would have said if she knew he was planning on joining the rebels as soon as he could.
