Rolan knocked on the door at 230 Front Street. The buiding was part of a row of townhouses, and from the outside it looked like any other house on the street. A slot opened in the door and Rolan saw a pair of eyes looking through. A woman's voice came from behind the door, strongly accented. "Who are ya? What are ye doing here?"

"I was told to tell you that Mick sent me. Just came from the pub up the road."

The eyes looked him up and down from behind the door. "Alright. Come on in. Take yer shoes off though."

Rolan stepped in and saw a small but comfortable looking home. Directly in front of the door was a staircase headed up. To his right was a sitting room with a handful of chairs and couches. There were several people there, listening to a radio broadcast. It sounded like a classical music performance. As Rolan finished taking his shoes off, the performance concluded, and he heard the sound of applause coming through the small speakers. The listeners in the room clapped along as well. The group of them seemed to be in good spirits.

The woman who let him in turned out to be an older woman, rather shorter than Rolan but considerably stockier. She was wrapped in a bright blue sarnsa and wore a stern expression on her face. Despite the unusual clothing, Rolan found that she reminded him of his own grandmother. He found her rather endearing for that.

"I have a bunk for ye upstairs. There's also some soup left over from dinner if yer hungry."

Taking his hat off and placing it on the coat rack, Rolan nodded. "That sounds good, thank you. Give me a minute to place my things upstairs and I'll be right back down."

The older woman called out, "Hey Laney! Will you show this man up to his room? I'm putting him up in the third floor room with Walter and Baldwin."

A young woman from the sitting room turned and noticed them. With a mischievous grin on her face, she said, "Baldwin is right here you know. Why can't he do it?"

"Well young lady, I didn't ask Baldwin to do it. But I'm sure if I did, he would do so without asking impertinent questions."

Laney was already standing up. She didn't seem like she was genuinely offended, but she was having some fun with the old lady. "Ah yes, why ask a man to do something when there's a perfectly good woman available?"

An older, rather more portly man sitting in a comfortable chair and smoking a pipe looked up. "Laney, I'm at least twenty years your senior. It's only fitting for the youth to handle these sorts of things."

"And what about chivalry? I thought you men were supposed to be excited to spare us of such mundane tasks."

The older man laughed, wheezing a bit as he did so. The man wasn't dirty, exactly, but he had an unkempt sort of look. His hair was a bit too long and it looked like it had been a day or two since he last shaved. The jacket he wore pulled a bit too tight around his waist. "Chivalry is one of the few diseases in this world with which I have never found myself afflicted."

Laney rolled her eyes, but stepped forward and offered her hand to Rolan. "Hi, I'm Laney. Let me show you where you'll be staying."

Rolan took her hand and shook it. "And I'm Rolan. It's nice to meet you."

Laney nodded towards the older man in the sitting room. "Baldwin here will be your roommate. Walter is probably still upstairs."

She led him up two flights of stairs and knocked on a door. "Walter, you in there?"

The door opened, revealing a stick-thin boy. He could hardly be older than 17. "Oh, hey Laney. What's going on?"

"We have another recruit here."

Rolan introduced himself again, and then headed into the room. It wasn't a large room, but three small beds had been crammed in there.

Walter followed behind him. "You can just shove your things down under the bed, there's not really anywhere else to put them."

Rolan was used to cramped quarters. It was still spacious compared to some rooms he'd shared in the navy. He went ahead and slid his things under the unoccupied bed. "I heard something about leftover dinner? That sounds good right now."

Walter put his hand on his stomach. "Actually another bite sounds pretty good right now. Maybe Mrs. Winford will give me a bowl too."

Rolan grinned at the boy. "It looks to me like you could use it, to be honest, Walter."

Laney laughed and patted the boy on his stomach. "You could definitely stand to fatten up a bit."

Walter blushed, but led the way back downstairs.

The next hour or so passed quickly. Mrs. Winford sat Rolan down at the dining room table and brought him a huge bowl of soup and a big chunk of bread with butter. It was good food. He liked it better than anything they'd had on the <em>Mesmeric</em>. Not that the food on the ship was terrible or anything. But this food just felt more real to him. It had been a while since he'd enjoyed a proper supper prepared in a proper home.

She brought Walter an equally large amount of food, which he ate with gusto. Laney sat with them while they ate, and Baldwin drifted in and out, chatting amicably to everyone nearby. Rolan met a number of other people who came through. He learned there were about a dozen people staying in the house at the moment. Mrs. Winford ran the house, assisted by two younger women he saw handling various chores and errands. Everyone else was here to join the rebellion. Even here, though, they spoke of it indirectly, preferring to allude to the topic rather than say things directly. Rolan wasn't sure if they were genuinely afraid of being spied on, or if it was just a habit to avoid speaking of dangerous things too openly. This was the first time Rolan had been in a position to speak of it at all with anyone, and he desperately wanted to know everything. But he followed their lead and remained circumspect.

Even though he couldn't speak of it directly, it felt good to be around people who knew. He'd carried this burden by himself in silence, terrified of anyone finding out. He was surprised how relieved he felt to be able to let down his guard and enjoy a meal with people he could trust.

Eventually, though, the topic of his past came up.

Walter broached the topic first. "So, Rolan what did you do? You know, before coming here?"

Rolan froze up for a second. He had nearly forgotten that it wasn't that long ago he was celebrated in the newspaper for how many rebels he had killed.

Laney seemed to sense his reaction. "Walter, I'm not sure Rolan wants to talk about that right now."

Walter cocked his head, confused, then his eyes opened wide. "Oh. I'm uh, I'm sorry Rolan. I don't mean to pry into anything too personal."

"No, it's okay Walter. I'm just... not proud of certain things, you know?" Rolan expected that, young as he was, Walter wouldn't really get it. Rolan hoped Walter never did quite get it, truthfully.

"I think I understand. I ran away from home, you know? My parents didn't understand me."

Rolan sat back in his chair, leaning back a bit. "They'll understand eventually, Walter. Or at least, they'll accept things. You're a man now, not a child. They'll come to see that."

"I'm going to make a name for myself. They told me I have no business being out there fighting. But I have to give it a shot, you know?"

"Yeah, I think I get it. But you should know Walter, there's no shame if you're not a fighter. Fighting is like playing a violin. Some people take to it naturally, other people are just hopeless."

Laney looked up at Rolan. "I get the sense that you're not hopeless, Rolan."

"Oh, I'm worthless on violin. My parents made me play in orchestra for three years until the conductor sent them a gift basket with a card asking them to let me quit."

"That's not what I meant."

Rolan shrugged. "We'll see about the fighting. Maybe I'll get them, maybe they'll get me. That's how it works, right?"

The group sat pensively for a minute, none of them wanting to break the silence.

From the next room, they heard a news report come on the radio. Another skirmish between imperial and rebel forces. A small rebel flotilla struck an imperial convoy with losses on both sides. The imperials continued searching for hidden rebel bases, but faced difficulties. Treaties with the independent southern islands limited imperial search efforts through the southern sea. Nominally, the independent islands were launching their own search effort for rebel bases. But it was an open question how serious that search would be taken.

The internal political situation here was more complex than Rolan had realized while back in the empire. Some politicians here in the south favored a policy of alignment and alliance with the empire. But others were skeptical. They saw the rebels as an important counterbalance. They didn't want the independent islands to become another imperial province in all but name.

Why was Rolan even out here? He felt like he'd barely thought it through. He knew he couldn't stand fighting for the empire anymore. But what if he was making the same mistake all over again, finding himself fighting for some other pointless cause?

<em>No. This is different.</em> He firmly told himself that. It was not the same thing. The rebels weren't trying to conquer anyone. They just wanted the empire to leave them alone.

Plus, he'd only been here for a day, but he liked this place. The whole city exploded with life and vibrancy. He couldn't help but think the empire would smash that down if they could, turning this into another dreary administrative center. These people were good people. He wanted to fight with them. He wanted to fight for them.

Granted, he still felt that way about his comrades back in the navy. They were good people too, for the most part.

But what could Rolan do? He'd tried peace for the last six months. He was terrible at it. He needed the fight. Maybe these would be the people to put him to some decent use.