The next few days passed slowly for Rolan. He didn't much feel like taking part in the various amusements offered on the ship. He tried to watch a movie, but he got antsy and left halfway through. Gambling had never been his thing and the casino was too loud and noisy for his tastes anyway. He had some books in his luggage, but he only got a few pages into each before he felt nervous, like a prey animal sitting in the open for too long.

He ended up wandering around the ship. Like other ships he'd been on, it was both impressively huge and surprisingly small. For a man-made object floating on the sea, moving under its own power, it was enormous. Rolan was still occasioanlly awestruck by how big modern ships could be. But once that wore off, it was still only a bit bigger than a city block in actual size. It had 12 decks, but most of them were just long hallways full of passenger quarters. You could explore the important parts of the ship in an afternoon.

He did try and keep his head down and avoid any incidental run-ins. He saw Percy a few times, ambling along with someone or another. Rolan kept clear to avoid being dragged into a conversation. He didn't want to leave too big of an impression on anyone. He certainly didn't want them trying to track him down once they made it to port.

Vairnus City was the destination at the other end of the line. It was an important city, the capital of the Vairnus Republic. It was the biggest city in the southern islands. It was also becoming increasingly significant. Free of imperial control, it was known for both technological innovation and subversive art.

Rolan didn't expect he'd be staying in the city for very long. The piece of paper in his pocket gave him instructions for where to go in order to meet a rebel recruiter. He wasn't sure what would happen after that, but he expected he would be whisked away to one of their secret bases. There were hundreds of thousands of islands out here in the south, scattered across a vast stretch of ocean. Few of them were inhabited. It was easy for the rebels to hide a few bases out here.

Rolan's biggest fear was running into imperial secret police. They certainly didn't have the resources to track every discharged imperial officer. But he worried he was important enough they'd want to keep an eye on him. He doubted they'd suspect him of joining the southern rebels. But they might be concerned if he decided to involve himself in one political movement or another. As a publicly awarded ace pilot, he'd make a useful pawn for certain movements that the imperial authorities wouldn't like. He wouldn't put it past them to keep someone on his tail. Though if there was someone tailing him, they were doing a good job of it. He hadn't noticed anyone obviously following him around, either back home after his discharge or here on the <em>Mesmeric</em>. It was also possible they'd have someone on the liner for some other purpose and they'd notice him. He didn't think he was that recognizable though, and he doubted they'd briefed every agent on every discharged officer they might encounter.

On the whole, he was probably safe. If they bothered tracking him, his trip would seem perfectly normal. Lots of imperials visited Vairnus City. Enough to support a big top-of-the-line ocean liner like the <em>Mesmeric</em>. But he worried about it nonetheless. He wasn't much of a rulebreaker most of the time, and he didn't find that it suited him now either. <em>Buck up</em>, he told himself. <em>That's always been your problem. You just do what you're told</em>. It was true. He'd always chased praise and acclaim. First from his family, learning how to work in the repair shop. They'd been so proud when he was accepted into the imperial navy as a mechanic. And then he worked his tail off, becoming part of an air crew in just a year. It wasn't long before he went from fixing planes to flying them.

Finally, the <em>Mesmeric</em> arrived at port. Rolan picked his way through a crowd to stand on the high observation deck. The view of the city skyline was impressive. Dozens and dozens of modern skyscrapers rose from dense city streets. There were hundreds of other ships of all sizes coming and going from the harbor. It was approaching dusk as the city first entered view, and the sunset to their right was spectacular. The city was in a natural bay, so the island curved towards them, with the sun setting below it. From this height, Rolan could see hills, carefully terraced for rice cultivation, extending for miles and miles around the city. Homes were packed in tight lines along the roads, connecting the city center to the rich hinterland around it. 

As the sun fell below the horizon, the city lit up. Rolan could see streetlights illuminating wide boulevards, he saw light spilling from the windows of buildings, and he saw the headlamps from hundreds of cars as they trickled through the city streets.

A bit over an hour later, Rolan was stepping off the ship on to a pier. He followed the crowd towards the city. He kept moving, and soon found himself on a major city street. It was dinnertime and he could smell spicy food from the nearby restaurants in the air. He also saw taxis lined up, ready to take travelers from the port on to a final destination.

Folks here were dressed differently than he was accustomed to. Many were wearing fairly common imperial fashions: men in trousers and jackets, women in dresses. But he also saw many people wearing colorful wraps around their bodies, with varying levels of ornamentation. He'd heard of this style of clothing, locally known as the sarnsa. It was a traditional outfit here in the southern islands. Many of the people wearing imperial-style clothing also included something more colorful as well to go along with it. Rolan felt he looked a little drab by comparison in his simple brown jacket and tan trousers.

Rolan steered himself around the crowds into an alley where he could be relatively alone. Looking around to make sure nobody was too close, he set down his luggage and pulled the folded piece of paper out of his jacket pocket. It contained an address: <em>The Wiley Wagon, 194 Front St. Ask for Mick.</em> He'd been told to visit the pub sometime in the evening. He glanced up at a nearby clocktower and saw it was about 7pm. He decided the best thing would be to head straight there. They hadn't told him what would happen once he arrived, but they might have someplace they wanted him to stay. He didn't want to check into a hotel and then have to move his things somewhere else.

After asking a man working at a nearby newsstand, Rolan knew where he was going. He boarded a trolley making its way further south, away from the harbor, handing a few coins to the operator. While on the <em>Mesmeric</em> he'd taken advantage of a money changer to change some of his imperial notes to the local currency. 

The trolley was packed full of men and women making their way out of the city for the evening. He heard a few different languages being spoken. Almost everyone spoke Tomeric, of course, which had been spread across the world a very long time ago, back even before the fall of the Orthochron. In a lot of the empire, local languages had been stomped out in favor of imperial standard Tomeric. But here in the southern islands, things were a bit looser, and hundreds of smaller languages survived. Rolan didn't expect to have any difficulty speaking to anyone, but it was disconcerting to hear conversations happening around him that he couldn't understand.

After ten minutes on the trolley, Rolan saw he'd reached his stop. As the trolley slowed, he hopped off, along with a handful of others. This part of the city was more humble than the city center. The buildings sat lower and the streets were less crowded. But it wasn't a slum by any means. Rolan had been through some real slums and this place didn't have the feel. But it was the type of place a respectable working family would live if they needed to be able to get into the city quick.

Rolan continued down a few more streets until he found the place he was looking for. The Wiley Wagon was a cozy-looking pub underneat some apartments. A wagon wheel was mounted above the front door. A small bell rang as Rolan stepped into the pub and a handful of people glanced over at him.

The place seemed cheery enough. Many of the people inside were dressed in colorful sarnsas, and much of the decor was colorful to match. There was no large hearth, a standard feature of the pubs Rolan had typically frequented back home. But he supposed it was rarely cold enough out here to matter.

Rolan stepped up to the bar and sat down. A bartender came over right away. "What will it be for you?"

Rolan glanced over the beer taps. He only saw one brand he recognized, so he ordered that one. "I'll take the Westmore Lager."

The bartender poured it and set it in front of him with a small coaster. Rolan handed over a few coins in exchange. Rolan took a sip and immediately felt his nerves calm down a bit. He probably shouldn't be drinking right before a potentially dangerous meeting with a rebel recruiter... but one drink wouldn't hurt. Besides, it would be rude to come in here and not order anything.

About halfway through his beer, Rolan caught the bartender's eye. "Hey, I was supposed to meet someone here. His name is Mick. You know him?"

The bartender nodded. "I thought you might be one of his recruits. He's back there." He pointed back to a booth in the corner with a large man sitting at it.

Rolan glanced up, surprised to hear him speak of it so boldly.

The bartender kept going. "Have you been in the business for a while, or is this your first cargo ship gig? You look imperial to me, so I bet you've been around."

That made more sense. Mick would be operating behind some sort of front. A cargo ship company would be a good cover story. People who joined on cargo ships were long-haulers, staying on the same ship for months or years at a time as it went from port to port. Nobody would be surprised if someone left town on a cargo ship and never came back. "I've been around a bit, I suppose. Thank you." Rolan tipped his beer at the bartender as he got up and made his way across the room.

Rolan approached the larger man sitting in the corner. "Are you Mick?"

The man looked up. "Sure am. You got your paper with you?"

Rolan fished out the paper from his pocket and handed it over. Mick inspected it for a moment, turning and holding it up against the light. Rolan realized there was a barely visible watermark he hadn't noticed before. Clever.

"Seems legit," Mick said. "Have a seat."

Rolan sat down across from Mick.

Mick cleared his throat. "Let's not uh, discuss too many details here. But in broad terms... you understand what you're getting into here, right?"

Rolan remained vague with his words, but looked Mick dead in the eyes, trying to convey how serious he was. "Yes. I know what I'm getting into."

"Good. good." Mick pulled another sheet of paper out of a folder. "We have a ship heading out tomorrow morning. Are you able to be on it? If not, you can wait for the next one in a few weeks."

"I'm ready. I'll be there."

"Excellent." Mick slid the paper over. It had the name of a ship on it and a berth number. "Be on the <em>Armadillo</em> at 0530. That's 5:30am in military time. Some of the newer folks don't know that."

Rolan chuckled a bit. "I know military time."

"Do you have a place you're staying tonight?"

"I came here first, hadn't found a spot yet."

"We have some bunks up the street at 230 Front Street. Feel free to stay there if you'd like. Some of your future comrades are up there too. Just tell them Mick sent you."

Rolan picked up the paper from the table and folded it a few times, sliding it into his pocket. "Yeah, that sounds good to me. I'll head over and get settled. Will I see you tomorrow?"

"Nah, I'm stuck landside for now. Somebody's gotta keep things running here in the city."

Rolan drained the last of his beer and stood. "It was nice to meet you Mick. Have a good evening."

"You too."

Rolan waved to the bartender as he walked out of the pub on to the street. It had started to rain a bit, really just a warm mist. He turned down the street and headed towards the indicated address. He wondered what sort of people he was about to meet there. He realized he had very little idea what sort of person typically joined a rebellion.